[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So, let's go ahead and
do quick sort together.
Did anyone get it in here by the way?
Awesome.
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
let's take a look at it.
>> Brian Holt: And
if you didn't again remember this is hard,
right.
This is why they ask in interviews,
so it weeds out people that haven't
read a book before or
something like that, I don't know.
That's probably really mean to say.
No, people that just haven't
gone through this stuff that,
because obviously you don't encounter
it on your day to day, right?
That's not what I intended to say,
not to be the raging jerk that I just was.
Okay Hans, I'm really sorry.
So, let's create a new
function called Quicksort.
Okay, so we know this is a new cursive
function, so what's the first thing we do?
Base case I keep repeating this
because it's super important.
>> Brian Holt: So, let's do if nums.length
is less than or equal to 1 then just go
ahead and return whatever is in nums.
That's totally fine, okay?
So, this says if we have
a length 1 length 0
then you can just go ahead return just
that because it's already sorted, okay?
So, first thing, let's find the pivot.
The pivot we know is
always going to last one.
So, we're gonna say const pivot = nums,
nums.length-1, right.
This is gonna be the last
element of the array.
They're gonna create new two new
arrays const left equals empty array,
const right equals empty array, okay
>> Speaker 2: Those
can't be consts can they?
>> Brian Holt: Those need to be.
They can be consts.
>> Speaker 2: You're not reassigning.
>> Brian Holt: Exactly, so
a little bit confusing, those can be
consts because we're not actually.
If you want to think about
it in terms of pointer,
we're not moving the pointer, right?
So, this is different than object.freeze.
So that's one thing to keep in mind.
>> Brian Holt: I know other
people that feel this way, if you feel
better about putting the let here because
you're saying, I'm going to be
making this mutable that's fine too.
Whatever communicates to you better.
That's what all this is about
because you're not really
getting performance gains here.
Okay, so if we're gonna make a for
loop that we're going to loop over
and just divide into two lists, okay?
So let i = 0, i < nums.length i++, right?
Nothing too crazy there, and
then we're just gonna ask
simply is if nums up,
i < pivot, then left.push(nums[i]), right?
Else what.
Well, if it's not going in the left one,
it's definitely going in the right one.
So, right.push(nums[i]).
>> Speaker 2: Aren't you pushing
the pivot onto those two at this point?
>> Brian Holt: We're not gonna be
pushing the pivot at all.
The pivot doesn't get
pushed into either side.
>> Speaker 2: How do you avoid that
scenario?
>> Brian Holt: You're absolutely right,
you need to do -1.
I missed that part because you don't
actually wanna go all the way to the end.
Good call.
Okay, so, now we have two lists, right?
And again, if you feel more
comfortable saying const sortedLeft
= quickSort Left,
that's totally fine with me to do.
I'm just gonna do it the short way.
I'm just gonna return a new
array [ ...quickSort(left),
then so
we're gonna have the left array right?
And then we're gonna have to pit it.
And then we're going to have quickSort.
Sorry, again right,
now since we know both these are going
to return a raise every single time.
That's totally kosher to do.
But, If you want this, make a little
bit maybe more familiar you can
say, you can do left dot concat.
Sorry, quick sort left rather.
>> Brian Holt: You
can do it this way and
then do pivot quicksort right.
Right, any one of these is gonna work.
You cans separate it out to
different calls if you want to.
You can do dot concat, and so
making a new array every single time.
That works too.
All that totally works.
>> Brian Holt: This is programming,
there's a bunch of different
ways to write it, so.
In this particular case we're gonna stick
with that cuz I think it looks pretty
cool.
>> Brian Holt: And okay, so let's
just make sure I didn't mess anything up
>> Brian Holt: And
it works.
>> Brian Holt: Any
questions?
>> Brian Holt: I
felt like someone wanted to say
something and then gave up.
[LAUGH] Great.
>> Speaker 2: We should just
use pop instead of doing
that nums.length- 1.
That feels kinda weird.
>> Brian Holt: So pop.
>> Speaker 2: So like pivot equals
nums.pop Not just
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you could.
So, the reason why one might not want
to do that which I haven't been doing
on other places but one could do here is
now you're being destructive to nums.
So, whatever they're passing in it
gets modified and often that's not
desirable and we're going to get into that
later of why that's not desirable but
it would be totally right that insertion
sort and bubble sort were destructive.
So,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I try not
to be destructive when I don't have to be.
>> Brian Holt: It's a good
question though.
The answer is it still works, so,
to your point it does still work.
>> Brian Holt: Great,
well congratulations.
We have done all the sorting
that we're gonna do today, and
I'm gonna say that those are the heavy
hitters in the sorting world.
There's some other ones people use like
radix sort which is crazy [INAUDIBLE]
that's were not gonna talk it cuz
I don't understand it super well.
There's selection sort which
is like an intermeric-
intermediary step between bubble sort and
insertions sort.
I don't think anyone really
uses selection sort either.
It's just another one of
those instructive ones I
have a personal favorite
which is called Bogosort.
And, Bogosort just imagine you have
a deck of cards that you wanna sort.
With Bogosort what you do is you
throw them all up in the air and
then you pick them up and
then you see if they're sorted.
And if they're not then you throw them up
in the air again and you pick them up and
you see if they're sorted.
I don't know someone, it's a real thing.
I'm gonna prove it to you right now.
Bogosort Wikipedia.
>> Brian Holt: It's
a particularly ineffective
sorting algorithm.
[LAUGH] Thank you, Wikipedia.
Also called stupid sort.
I like that.
Anyway there's another
one that's really funny.
It's average cases n plus one factorial,
which is a huge number.
So, there's another reason we didn't do
that one, because it takes forever for
it to work.